---
published: false
category: blog
layout: blog
summary: Ranking Los Angeles's most dangerous intersections for cyclists.
---

We set out to find the most dangerou intersections for cyclists in
the city of Los Angeles. Specifically, we wanted to rank interesections
by the number of cyclists reported injured in [our SWITRS based
collision dataset](#dataset).

At a high level, we found that though there were some concentrated areas
of especially dangerous intersections, significant hotspots are scatterd
across the entire city.

** IMG overview of Los Angeles **

The List
--------

### Tenth Most Dangerous Intersection(s)

Sunset & La Brea, Raymer St & Sepulveda Blvd, and Lincoln Blvd & Lake
Street are in an unenviable threeway tie for the tenth most dangerous
intersections for cyclists in Los Angeles. There were ten cyclists
injured at each of these intersections in our [dataset](#dataset).

** TODO say something more here **

### Number Nine Through Six

A four-way tie for six through nine. James M Wood & Vermont, 30th &
University, Chandler & Lankershim, Sherman Way & Remmet Ave all had
cyclists reorted injured.

** TODO say something more here **

### Number Five

Hoover & 30th, near USC, comes in at the fifth most dangerous
intersection for cyclists in Los Angeles.  There were 12 injured
cyclists at this intersection recorded in our data set.

In fact, four of the top 10 intersections with the most bicycle
collisions are near USC.  Part of this is no doubt related to the high
number of cyclists in this neighborhood, but it still speaks to the need
for increased investment in safe cycling infrastrucure near USC.

** Detail map of USC here **

### Tied for Number Three

Continuing our sad story of cycling near USC, 28th & Hoover and 29th &
Hoover were independently tied for the number three most dangerous
intersection in LA. There were 13 recorded injuries in our
[dataset](#dataset) at *each* intersection. Also interesting is that
both of these are "T" intersections, with streets terminating into
Hoover. What's going on here that so many are being injured? Would you
guess that it was people who were just turning onto Hoover, or peole
just about to turn off of Hoover?  It's hard to say, but from the data
it appears that at 28th & Hoover people have been hit *on* Hoover, while
on 29th & Hoover, people have been hit *on* 29th.

### Number Two

The number two most dangerous interesection for cyclists was Jefferson
& Vermont. 15 cyclists were injured here.

** TODO say something more here **

### The Most Dangerous Intersection in Los Angeles

With 16 recorded cyclist injuries in our [dataset](#dataset), the number
one most dangerous intersection for cyclists in Los Angeles is 4th &
Vermont, in Koreatown.

Vermont Avenue is definitely cause for concern. Maybe you notived that
three of the top ten spots on this list were along Vermont. Vermont is a
high traffic street with no bicycle infrastructure.

This may point to the lack of strong North/South connector alternatives
for cyclists in Los Angeles. There are relatively more bike lanes on
some of the major east west streets like Santa Monica Blvd (in West
Hollywood and Westwood at least) and Sunset Blvd from Echo park to it's
junction in East Hollywood. 4th and 7th streets across Koreatown also
boast bike lanes or at least sharrows. But where are our major
North/South bike lanes?

## Dataset <a name="dataset"></a>

This analysis is based on the data pulled from the TIMS project out of
Berkeley which in turn gets their data from the California Highway
Patrol SWITRS database. It encomposses collisions reported to law
enforcement between 2002-2012.

This data is somewhat old. With cycling on the rise, the number of
people affected, and potentially at risk for injury or death while
cycling in the city is certainly growing. Take a look at our [heatmap of
bicyle collisions](http://collisions.jackpine.me) in Los Angeles to get
a visual idea of how bicycle collisions are growing in different areas
over time.

You can read more about how we generated these figures and download all
our data by reading our [how-to article]().

## Systematic Failure

When analysing the data, it's clear that there are intersections with
inordinately high number of cyclist injuries. This is likely due to both
a higher volume of cyclists and a lack of adequate cycling
infrastructure in these neighborhoods.

In particular USC and the Vermont corridor are ripe for safer mobility
infrastructure like bike lanes and traffic calming. But beyond these
clusters, most of the dangerous intersecions in Los Angeles are
scattered. From Santa Monica to Boyle Heights, from Canoga Park to the
Port, it's clear that better comprehensive planning and engineering is
required across the city.

**TODO** insert image of all hotspots across LA, maybe heatmap with
caption and link.

These are just the top 10 intersections. Together these 140 reported
cyclist injuries comprise a tiny fraction of the 27066 injured cyclists
reported in that time frame. We hope that highlighting them does not
diminish the **over 200** intersections in Los Angeles that have injured
at least 5 cyclists as reported in our data set. Keep in mind the number
of actual injuries is no doubt higher.

Similar to the [LA Times Analysis of Dangerous Pedestrian
Intersections](http://graphics.latimes.com/la-pedestrians/), we found
that 25% of cyclist injuries occurred at 1% of the intersections in Los
Angeles.

These intersections are prime candidates for improvement in line with
Los Angeles's [recently approved mobility
element](http://www.latimes.com/opinion/editorials/la-ed-mobility-plan-los-angeles-20150811-story.html)
which lays out some new standards and strategies for how the city plans
and builds its transportation systems to facilitate **all** modes of
travel, not just automobiles. In particular, Garcetti's [vision
zero](http://la.streetsblog.org/2014/09/30/ladots-bold-new-strategic-vision-eliminate-l-a-traffic-deaths-by-2025/)
component declares that each traffic death must be viewed as a failure,
necesitating changes in infrastructure and/or policy, with a goal of
reducing traffic fatalities to zero by 2035.

You can read the full text of the [mobility element here](http://planning.lacity.org/Cwd/GnlPln/MobiltyElement/Text/MobilityPlan_2035.pdf).

We hope you found this analysis interesting, and maybe even useful. If you are interested
in looking into our methods, check out our [how-to article](). It's not
hard to get started, and we're excited to share and learn with other
folks interested in using data to help draw conclusions of the world
around us.

Comments and Suggestions? [contact us](mailto://hello@collision.la).
