L.A.'s Most Dangerous Intersections for Cyclists
================================================

We set out to find the most accident prone intersections for cyclists in
the city of Los Angeles. Specifically, we want to rank interesctions by
the number of cyclists reported injured in [our collision
dataset](#dataset).

Our high level results, although there were a couple of concentrated
areas of especially dangerous intersections, slightly smaller hotsots
are scatterd across the enter city. For a graphical picture of the
collision hotspots in Los Angeles, check out our [bicycle collision
heatmap](http://collision.jackpine.me).

There were several high incident spots near USC. In fact, four of the
top 10 intersections with the most bicycle collisions occured near USC.
Part of this is no doubt related to the high number of cyclists in this
neighborhood, but it also speaks to the need for increased investment in
safe cycling infrastrucure.

Apart from the cluster of intersections near USC, the remaining most
dangerous intersections were scattered around Los Angeles, including
Santa Monica and Sherman Oaks. Another pattern I derived was Vermont
Avenue.  Three of the top ten spots were along Vermont, though at
different points.

This may point to the lack of strong North/South connectors for cyclists
in Los Angeles. Consider the bike lanes on major east west streets like
Santa Monica Blvd (in west Hollywood) and Sunset Blvd from Echo park to
it's junction in East Hollywood, also 4th and 7th streets across Korea
Town boast bike lanes or sharrows. But where are our major North/South
bike lanes? The same could be said for the bus routes. Down Town LA to
Santa Monica is relatively well connected, but for those of us who need
to traavel north and south, where are we to go?

TODO:
Compare this to the results from the L.A. Times article documenting the
most dangerous intersections for pedestrians.

The List
--------

### Number One

With 16 recorded cyclist injuries in our [dataset](#dataset), the number
one most dangerous intersection for cyclists in Los Angeles is 4th &
Vermont, in Koreatown.

### Number Two

The number two most dangerous interesection for cyclists was Jefferson
& Vermont. 15 cyclists were injured here.

### Number Three and Four

29th & Hoover and 29th & Hoover were indendently tied for the number
three most dangerous intersection in LA. There were 13 recorded injuries
in our [dataset](#dataset) at *each* intersection. Also intereseting is
that both of these are T intersections, with 28th and 29th terminating
into Hoover. Do you think it was peole who were just turning onto
Hoover, or peole about to turn off of Hoover? It's hard to say, but from
the data it appears that at 28th & Hoover people have been hit *on*
Hoover, while on 29th & Hoover, people have been hit *on* 29th.

### Number Five

Continuing our sad story of cycling near USC, Hoover & 30th comes in
at the fifth most dangerous intersection for cyclists in Los Angeles.
There were 12 injured cyclists at this intersection recorded in our data
set.

### Number Six Through Nine

An unenviable four-way tie for six through nine. James M Wood &
Vermont, 30th & University, Chandler & Lankershim,
Sherman Way & Remmet Ave all had cyclists reorted injured.

### Ten Through Twelve

Sunset & La Brea, Raymer St & Sepulveda Blvd, and Lincoln Blvd & Lake
Street are in a threeway tie for the tenth most dangerous intersections
for cyclists in Los Angeles. There were ten cyclists injured at these
intersections in our [dataset](#dataset).

## Dataset

This analysis is based on the data pulled from the TIMS project out of
Berkeley which in turn gets their data from the California Highway
Patrol SWITRS database. It encomposses collisions reported to law
enforcement between 2002-2012.

This data is somewhat old. With cycling on the rise, the number of
people affected, and potentially at risk for injury or death while
cycling in the city is certainly growing. Take a look at our [heatmap of
bicyle collisions](http://collisions.jackpine.me) in Los Angeles to get
an idea of how bicycle collisions are growing over time.

## Conclusion

When analysing the data, it's clear that there are neighborhoods with
inordinately high number of cyclist injuries. This is likely due to both
a higher volume of cyclists and a lack of adequate cycling
infrastructure in these neighborhoods.

In particular around USC and along the Vermont corridor are ripe for
better cycling infrastructure. But beyond these clusters, most dangerous
intersecions in Los Angeles are scattered. From Santa Monica to Boyle
Heights, from Canoga Park to Long Beach, it's clear that better
comprehensive planning and engineering is required across the city.

These are just the top 10 intersections, and we hope that highlighting
them does not do a disservice to acting on the **over 200**
intersections in Los Angeles that have injured at least 5 cyclists in
our data set. Keep in mind the number of actual injuries is no doubt
higher when you consider unreported incidents and the age of our data.
These intersections are all prime candidates for improvement in line
with Los Angeles's [recently approved mobility element]() which lays out
some new standards and strategies how the city plans and builds its
transportation systems to facilitate **all** modes of travel, not just
cars. In particular, Garcetti's [vision zero]() component declares that
each death must be viewed as a failure, necesitating changes in
infrastructure and or policy.

